The last lecture we use the default value for age
and we also nested our properties.
Now let's dive a bit deeper into how we can modify the way v-model works with these inputs.
Right now, the data down there is updated with each keystroke and I can prove this by going to my password
and outputting the current value directly below the password, simply so that we can see it on the same
page as the input field.
So if I save this if I now enter a password here, we can see it updates with each keystroke,
that is the default,
it reacts to the input event which means it updates whenever the input here changes.
Now maybe, we only want to update it after we enter the full password and well clicked in another input, so
basically once we're done finishing this input. We can do this by adding a modifier to v-model here,
I can add the lazy modifier with .lazy, what this will do is that behind the scenes, it will now not
listen to the input event,
so whenever we type something, whenever we enter something new but to the change event which is only
fired once we click somewhere else, once we leave that input. You can see it in action here,
if I now remove this, you see test is still there, only once I click into another input field does
test disappear
and on the same hand, if I now type here, it will only appear if I leave that input. That might be the
behavior you want if you don't want to update on each keystroke,
for example if you know you're going to write your values only upon hitting submit anyways or that is
the place where you then want to validate them and use them,
well you might use lazy to not update this instantly.
On the other hand, if you want to provide real time validation or give the user some hints upon a completion,
you might need that behavior of automatically detecting each keystroke
and not only react once the user is done but it's great to know that you get this option. Other modifiers
you can use are trim to trim any excess whitespace at the beginning and end
if you want to force that you don't have such whitespace or number,
so .number, .trim would have been the alternative for trimming .number to force that behind
the scenes the input is converted to a number right away. By default there will be a string,
everything you input here is a string that is how html works
but if you know you want to work with number in your vuejs code, you could add .number as a modifier,
like we add .lazy here so .number like that and that would force it to be transformed to a number
automatically so that you can work with that.
That is how you can use modifiers to adjust the input way,
so when to react as well as format with trim and number in the way you need it to behave.